We already did state management in this course, for example like this, we wanted to access a child with
this child's one child
and this direct access is not possible.
So we could pass for example a callback from the parent, from the root component to child one which
passes the callback to its child
and then this child uses the callback to pass the data to the parent, to the root parent I should say
and then this root component passes the data to the child where
we finally went to get our data.
Well if we only have these few components, that might work though it already doesn't make that much fun
but it might work but it does become harder if we add more layers of components to our application.
An alternative would be to use an event bus,
that means we still can't access it directly but we use a central component, a central vue instance
which we use as an event bus which we use to call emit on this bus
and then on the target component, we listen on changes in this bus.
It's better,
It's shorter but it still has its issues,
for example one bus alone will quickly get pretty crowded in bigger applications with a lot of different
emits and so on,
so there probably is a lot of code in this instance and in the end which arguably is maybe not the best
solution to this.
It also gives us another problem,
the changes we make are hard to track,
yes we do have the central bus but we access it from all over our application,
hence it's really hard for us to see in hindsight when we made which change in which place.
So yeah it's better, it might be all you need for medium sized applications,
there's nothing wrong, it's a perfectly valid tool
but for large applications, it might not be the best tool. For large applications really might
want a different set up where we have a unique or a central place where we store everything
but then also some specific places where we define our ways to change data, to get the data, so really that
we have a clear separation of concerns here and can therefore easily track when we made which change
and so on. Vuex, what this module is about
will offer us such a pattern,
so let's have a look at it.